Charlotteĺs BAG is one of the only UK charities specifically focussing on raising funds for research into, and awareness of, glioblastoma multiforme. This very rare and currently nearly always terminal form of brain cancer can affect anyone of any age. However, the plasticity of the brain as it develops during adolescence means that enormous changes are taking place, making any treatment for glioblastoma even more challenging.

Brain cancer is significantly underfunded, with only 1% of annual spending going towards research into cancers of the brain. This is one reason why there has been so little progress to date, unlike other cancers which have had massive investment and as a result seen survival rates increase dramatically. Brain cancer treatments have not progressed significantly since 1990, when temozolomide was first introduced.

Charlotte Eades died from glioblastoma in February 2016, just a week after her 19th birthday ľ but before her death Charlotte made a difference to thousands of other young cancer sufferers. Today, her mother Alex, brother Miles and friend Cressy plan to make a difference with Charlotteĺs BAG.

Why Charlotteĺs BAG? BAG stands for Battle Against Glioblastoma, and Charlotte was a major handbag aficionado!

Charlotteĺs BAG is a registered UK Charity: 1169419.

Charlotteĺs Story

Charlotte had lots in common with many teenage girls. She loved fashion, make-up, music and cats, and planned to go to college to study beauty therapy. She believed passionately in justice and fairness, and that kindness was an essential part of life. She was beautiful in every sense of the word, and loving and beloved.

Her world, and that of her family, fell apart in August 2013, when after suffering headaches for four months she was diagnosed with anaplastic astrocytoma, an incredibly rare cancer which affects one in a million people (or one person in 25 full football stadiums). Over the next three years the astrocytoma developed into glioblastoma multiforme.

Never one to be beaten, despite this shattering diagnosis, Charlotte began to vlog via youtube, talking to other young people about her experiences of life with cancer ľ and living life to the full, despite her condition. Her voice reached out to over 16 million people worldwide, and her achievements were recognised with awards from charities Cancer Research UK and Clic-Sargent.

Charlotte continued to vlog almost to the very end of her life in a series of heartwarming, funny, emotional, poignant and sad conversations with her followers, and Alex and Miles continue to keep her channel alive as a resource for young cancer patients and their families.
The Positive Effects of Cancer

What positive effects could there possibly be? Well, Charlotte decided that she would not be defined by her illness, and that she would make a difference. Prior to her diagnosis Charlotte suffered from crippling anxiety problems, and her school life had been seriously marred by bullying, leaving her unhappy and quite isolated.

Cancer helped Charlotte find her voice, she gained the confidence to not only create her vlogs from the privacy of her own home but also to stand up in public and make speeches to audiences of several hundred people at a time. She also gained the respect of people worldwide and made lasting friendships in the process.

In Milesĺ words, ôcancer gave Charlotte so much, and took so much from the rest of usö.

In Charlotteĺs words, ôI will make something good of having this cancer. I will show others that it is not all bad. I choose to live life to the full and love every second on this earth, good or bad.ö
